Next up, what I want to talk about is music choice.
Now, we've touched on music choice a few times in this journey together inside this course, but it's
something that I like to revisit as much as possible, because it's honestly one of the biggest.
I don't want to see mistakes, but it's one of the biggest missed opportunities.
A mistake when you miss taking something, right?
Hmm.
Yeah.
One of the biggest myths about missed opportunities that I see in a lot of videos that people send me
that people share with me, that I see online is a mismatch between the visuals and the music choice.
So song choice is everything OK?
It's everything.
It's just as important as the footage.
I'm sitting here and watching these beautiful shots and I'm sitting here and I'm listening to whatever
the editor is choosing I should listen to.
And it's another level of subtlety that you understand or you don't.
But if you don't know what song, then it's really good to practice and to visualize and to really absorb
the footage that you have.
And, you know, intuitively feel.
So it's another level of subtlety that this is why I like to revisit it again and again to really lock
in this thought process in this way of creating better looking videos, because you're choosing better
sounding audio to go with that.
So I chose I didn't even choose.
I just grabbed a few kind of random songs.
So let's actually first just take a quick, brief look through our content.
I'm just going to hit play and I'm going to kind of skip around.
So this is slow moving, classic, professional, clean, modern.
Not a whole lot of emotion that we need to provoke or create in a music track.
We want it to be calm, relaxing, but engaging, and we don't want it to sound like stock footage,
music.
We're not going to go in the hip hop more beats genre.
We're not going to go in the more electronic techno, you know, electronic house or future based genre.
We want to find a good middle ground that a 20 year old can listen to and a 40 year old can listen to
and a 60 year old, because especially for a video that we're creating for a client we want to have
in mind.
If it isn't already discussed upfront with the person you're working with, here's the target audience.
That's always a good thing to know, but especially for a client, a vision and video where you need
to lock in something that's going to sell something.
You want to keep the ending user, the end user, the viewer, the person who is the customer in mind.
Now, there's not going to be any like 18 year old, you know, millennial Gen X, Gen Z person that's
going to buy one of these properties.
So I'm not going to pick a track like that that I would just hear on Spotify playlist.
I want something a little bit more mature.
So let's go ahead and just kind of breezed through these tracks here.
And I like to bring it into premiere so I can actually see the waveform.
Yeah.
So we have our intro right here.
Not bad.
OK, I'm going to skip forward right here is going to be where the beat comes in.
I'm actually I like that one, it's got a little bit of a French vibe.
We don't want to get too much on the Bossanova kind of style.
We kind of want a track that's almost has enough personality to keep someone interested but doesn't
go too far into bossa nova or rock or hip hop, because then, you know, it can kind of become a distraction
for a video like this.
OK, that's too young sounding, so I'm just going to label this brown.
We're not going to use that.
Food.
OK.
Well, it definitely has the slow, smooth, relaxing vibe buds.
I'm not quite into it, so if it's a maybe, you know, you can label it something else.
Let's go let's go mango.
OK, just for those first two sounds, I can already tell.
Now to millennial the.
Super cool song, but this is more of a music festival recap video is not what we're doing here.
So the label at Brown
time and see if you can imagine the footage when you listen to your track that you're possibly going
to use.
OK.
I like the smoothness of this one.
Definitely.
So let's label this magenta.
And I would say it's between the first and last track.
So I'm going to what I'm going to actually do is I'm going to go ahead and drag in both of these tracks.
OK.
And then I'm going to mute one of them and I'm going to lock off our vidyalaya so nothing actually happens
to our Selex in our timeline.
And I'm just going to do a run through and just hit play and see which of these tracks better fits the
footage, and I really like choosing two to three.
And, you know, dropping in in the timeline and just getting a view and seeing because one that you
like.
Yeah, that's it.
And once you drop it and you see what the footage, it could change.
The second choice that you had actually fits the footage better.
So let's check it out.
And.
And I'm going to skip forward here.
Not bad, not bad.
Let's see the second option.
OK.
And I'm going to skip forward.
I mean, honestly, both of those sound really good.
Honestly, this second track for my ear goes a little bit into the stock music sound just slightly.
It doesn't have that really annoying, fully stocked sound that that tracks have, but it kind of does
almost get over there.
But and I really like this first one because it's got a lot of character.
But with the final viewer and the final consumer in mind for this kind of project specifically, I'm
going to have to go with this second track, because this first one is kind of Spanish or it has a bossa
nova vibe.
It's a little bit more fun and playful.
I think that the more classical and piano sound.
That has a little bit more of that personality that I would imagine the consumer vibing with more.
I'm going to go with the second track in this scenario.
If the viewer was going to be younger and it was more of a fun video, boom, we drop in this first
track.
So let's drop in this second track and then I'm going to line up the visuals to sync up with this music
choice that we just did together.